Hey, it's Rachel. This week, we're
revisiting some of our favorite shows
from the year, listening back, and
hearing what's happened in the time
since then.
Today, we return to the story of one
married couple's experience with GLP-1
drugs and how the use of weight loss
medications like Ompic can impact how
people see themselves and their closest
relationships.
It's Friday, December 26th.
Lisa, I don't think it's an
understatement to say that we in 2025
are in the middle of this what feels
like kind of a weight loss revolution in
the United States. And of course, we're
talking about these drugs that
everybody's probably heard of. Ompici
Monaro.
I think most people know somebody who's
been transformed by them. Maybe a lot of
people themselves have actually had some
experience with them.
>> Yeah. It's a revolution in how we look.
It's a revolution in our health. It's
got gigantic potential to help people
who have not been able to be helped
before. The data show that one in eight
Americans
>> has tried one of these drugs. Like I
have a friend who takes the medicine and
he says, you know, if you are able to
eat just five French fries
>> and you used to not be able to eat just
five French fries, it gives you
grounding in the idea that you can
control
things in your life that you didn't
think you could control.
>> So what else can you control?
>> [music]
>> Can you control
the way you relate [music] to your
children, the way you talk to your boss?
And what really interested [music] me
was this question of how the GLP1 drugs
affected a marriage, especially when one
partner is on the drugs and [music] the
other partner isn't.
How did you go about trying to find the
right people to talk to to to satisfy
that question? Right. Well, we at the
times have a thing called a call out
where you ask the public a question
>> and then we get responses to that
question and the question was this. Has
a GLP-1 drug like Ompic and subsequent
weight loss changed your relationship?
Um, and I was getting all of these
responses and one jumped out at me. He
wrote, "I believe it has changed a few
things. Less alcohol consumption,
smaller meal portions, improved health
outcomes, but I believe GLP1 has
affected my wife's libido, no interest
in sex,
>> perhaps due in part to image issues,
also increased mood swings on her part."
And I thought, there's a lot between the
lines here. And so I called them up and
they agreed to participate in the story
as long as I used their middle names.
>> Javier.
>> Javier. So he is Javier and she is Jean.
>> J E A N E.
>> They live in New England in sort of a
nice suburb.
>> We celebrated our anniversary a few days
ago.
>> They had been married for 15 years. And
I think maybe it's helpful to talk first
about what their relationship was like
before the drugs. And it goes back to
high school.
>> Junior year is when I met her. So that
takes us to 1987.
>> They both grew up in Sacramento.
>> What did you notice about her? Like what
what made you like her?
>> Her personality. Very outgoing, great
smile.
>> Well, I I thought he was cute. Um,
>> but she was like in a bigger body and
excruciatingly self-conscious about
that.
>> So, always felt awful, never felt
attractive.
>> And he had a crush on her.
>> You know, there have been times in my
life where, you know, someone was
actually flirting with me or trying to
you come on to me and I I just don't
register the signs because I feel so
uncomfortable in my own body.
So even though she had a crush on him
too, she wouldn't believe [music] it.
They were unrequited high school
sweethearts
and they each [music] married other
people.
>> What happened was that um my first
marriage was coming to an end.
>> My first marriage had just ended
>> and then
>> our 20-year reunion was coming up that
fall
>> and I told her that it'd be great to
connect and have a cup of coffee. They
told me about their first date.
>> The cup of coffee ended up being a
dinner and some beers and then
>> and they both told me about the first
time that they had sex.
The way he talked about it was just as
this unbelievably
magical
>> uninhibited
interaction. She didn't say, "Don't look
at me." Or, "I'm ashamed at this," or,
"The other," or, "My boobs are too big,"
or, "My butt's too big."
>> There was never any talk of that. So,
>> I I kind of thought that she was happy
in her body.
>> Mhm. And other women that you [music]
had been with like that.
>> And I'm running the story by the both of
them. [music] And she was like, I don't
exactly remember it that way.
Now, we know that they eventually get
together, right? They get married.
>> Yeah. They move to the east coast where
she gets big jobs in corporations. She's
the earner. You get the sense that they
fit each other's romantic fantasies
and they're extremely sexually attracted
to each other. It's a big part of their
identity as a couple. They have a child.
They settle into a life where they both
love food. They love wine and they get a
big wine fridge in their dining room.
>> Living the dream.
>> Totally. They're doers, you know. They
like to embibe in life. But throughout
this, you know, Jean struggled with her
weight.
>> I was obese um from a BMI perspective
>> after she had her baby. She was heavy.
She hated it. She had postpartum
depression. She
could not lose the weight.
>> Mhm.
>> And she would say she's gained and lost
70 lbs multiple times in her life and it
just felt like an endless
struggle to her. Did she tell you why
she was having so much trouble keeping
the weight off? She talked about food
noise.
>> Yeah, food noise to me feels like a
constant need to eat. I don't feel
hungry. I don't feel full, so I don't
have those physiological triggers to
know when to eat.
>> And the feeling of self-loathing that
she describes of not being able to
control that, like it's a failure of
will
>> and then being embarrassed about the
food that I was eating. So sneaking food
when I was home by myself, having a pint
of ice cream because I could and I could
hide it just
>> eventually this bleeds to health issues.
>> Um I do have um other chronic conditions
that it developed over time. I had
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
>> and she says to her doctor, "How about
one of these GLP1 drugs?"
>> And he wrote the script. And can you
just remind us, Lisa, how do these drugs
actually work?
>> Well, it they work by reducing your
feeling of being hungry. And because of
that, people lose a ton of weight really
fast. And people who have been dieting
their whole lives and struggling with
their weight are able to keep their
weight off as long as they're on the
drugs. And, you know, she starts losing
a lot of weight really fast. You know,
10 lbs, 20 pounds. I mean, she lost 60
pounds inside of eight months. And then,
you know, she notices that like people
start treating her differently.
>> Well, and even at work,
>> you know, she's a successful
professional. She's always been a
successful professional.
>> But I feel like the marketing team is
putting me out there more. Now suddenly
at work she's getting these outward
facing opportunities where she's being
put forward as a talking head to talk to
the media for example
>> in a way that she hadn't been before.
>> But I feel like there's this different
perception of me. I'm the same person.
I'm just 60 [music] lbs lighter. Now,
this is a thing that others have said
too about these drugs that doors open
and a lot of the people I talked to for
this story talk about the opportunities
that get presented to them, promotions
and dates. And if you're married, it
presents a whole world of things that
you have to suddenly start figuring out
that you didn't anticipate at all.
[music]
And that was definitely true for Jean
and Javier.
[music]
We'll be right back.
Lisa, I'm so curious how these huge
changes that Gene is going through, both
physically and emotionally are affecting
her relationship with Javier. I mean,
one of the first things that happened
was that she totally lost her appetite
for alcohol.
>> And for Jean, the loss of appetite just
changed
her whole approach to having fun with
her husband. I mean, no longer could
they sit on the couch and unccork a
bottle of wine at the end of the day or
go to the local brew pub and try out the
new beer. None of it felt good to her
anymore.
>> We go over to a friend's house and we'll
have a game night or something like
that. I mean, we'll still go. I just
won't drink.
>> And
that's fine.
>> Yeah. In fact,
>> she had an introverted side that hadn't
been able to express herself because she
was so busy being a pleaser extrovert
cuz she was in a bigger body and she
wanted people to like her.
>> I am not as much of a night owl as my
husband is. And I like to read my Kindle
a little bit before I go to sleep at
night. And
>> once she was in a smaller body, she
could assert herself and say like,
"Actually, I like being at home." But
she's also telling Javier she doesn't
want to do the things that he thought
that she loved and that they loved
together.
>> They love together, right? How does he
respond to all this? How does he
>> He does not like it.
>> No, no. I like going with the flow. I
mean, living in the moment and enjoying,
you know, whatever's going on the in
social aspects or social events. Yeah. I
>> He was like, "No, this is not how we
are. We are the people who do these
things."
>> I think he misses his drinking buddy,
the person who is going to stay out
late. It sounds like the lifestyle stuff
led to a lot of tension,
>> more than tension. I mean, I think they
had a really, really, really hard time.
And when I met them, they were fighting
a lot.
>> Um, before it was a conversation and you
know, and now it's a fight and one of us
is going to walk away angry um because
we're not seeing eye to eye on something
>> and their fights could be loud and ugly.
So I started really um wondering who I
was with. Bottom line is it became very
confusing to me as far as as far as how
to manage our relationship. I would even
comment to her and say, you know, I need
I don't recognize you. I need a road
map. I need I need a road.
>> One of the biggest things that changed
is that they completely stopped having
sex.
>> I used to love
feeling her body, her big body next to
me in bed. the softness uh of her body,
you know, the extra tummy and the extra
booty, you know, next to
>> They both talk about the loss of her
butt.
>> Are there things you miss about your
previous body?
>> My butt.
>> They both loved her butt.
>> So, I I miss that
that voluuptuousness.
Uh being able to lean up next to her and
feel her
for lack of a better word, draping over
me. That's no longer an option. Now it's
it's cuddling and it's cuddling as tight
and closely as we can or as I can. And
that's that's the extent of the
intimacy.
I I'm at a loss for why there's no
physical intimacy
>> or hasn't been any. this like physical
connection [music] that they had has
completely
changed [music] into something else. And
neither one of them knows exactly
how to
find it again.
>> And [music] this new body
I haven't really been able to touch or
or explore or anything like that.
>> It's not as accessible to you.
>> It's not. No.
Why haven't they had sex? Like, was that
just another appetite that the drugs
reduced? I mean, that's what Javier's
theory was. Is maybe
>> Jean has different theories of the case.
She's gone through menopause.
She's been on anti-depressants for a
really long time. And both of those
things are known to suppress sex drive.
But I think there's actually something
bigger at work here.
>> I haven't said this to him.
I just didn't say no before. Mhm. So,
>> she started to be able to draw
boundaries between doing things for
other people because they want them and
being able to articulate what she wants.
>> I'm setting the boundaries. I don't want
to have sex, but before I would,
>> but he very much wants to be her loving
partner.
>> Mhm. It sounds like the drugs kind of
unearthed something. They unearthed some
kind of dynamic in their sex life that
Gene had only been maybe vaguely aware
of, but certainly had not been in a
position to act on before she felt
differently about herself. Yes, I think
that's true. I think they were both
completely blindsided [music] by that.
>> I felt that we were always on the same
page and going on, you know, we're on
the same [music]
>> We weren't two ships in the night
crossing paths. we were one
>> one ship.
>> So you're empowered in a way to take up
space to say what you want
and that forces you to have to
figure out what you want.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Beyond just like I want to leave the
party at 10:00, you know, that's in a
way that's easy. Like do I want to have
a sexual relationship with my husband?
Do I want to leave my corporate job? Do
I wanna like like these are much bigger
questions?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, and kind of sad that
at 53 that I'm starting to have those
thoughts. Aren't those the kinds of
things that [music]
most people think about when they've
graduated from school? Right. I just I'm
the good girl and I do what what's
expected.
>> Mhm. In a certain body. And now you have
a different
>> in a certain body.
>> Yeah.
>> I still feel very strongly that this is
the one of the best things that I've
done for myself.
This is it. [music] you know, I I have
lost the weight and I will maintain this
for life and
I'm just so grateful.
[music]
>> [music]
>> After the [music] break, Lisa calls Gan
and Javier back to see how they've
handled the changes in their
relationship since the episode
originally aired.
>> Hi guys. Hey, how's it going?
>> Can you hear me?
>> We can hear you.
>> So, we met approximately a year ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Tell me what's changed between you since
then.
>> I'm not a virgin anymore. [laughter]
>> What do you mean by that? Are you having
sex? [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Not often, but yes.
>> Yeah. We've Let's just It's no longer a
dry spell. Let's just say that. That's
amazing. Jean, what prompted you? What
was the change in you?
>> I'd had a mommy makeover. Um, I had a
tummy tuck. I had a breast reduction and
lift. I had the arms done. So, removing
loose skin. So, I was just feeling
affectionate and appreciative.
>> Yeah. Out of the blue a few weeks ago,
Jean said, "Hey, I just want to thank
you for being so supportive through my
my adventure with my body image issues
and and fears." And I'm thinking, "Wow,
okay. Well, you're welcome." Like, you
know, I love you, baby. You know, and
that's that was the end of it.
>> So, break it down for me. Like, where
were you? What happened? What made you
in the mood?
[laughter]
>> Okay. No, I mean in the morning and at
home,
>> Jean said, "Hey, you know, we've said to
the effect that we we have some time and
I'm I'm feeling I'm feeling amorous. Uh,
do you want to
>> Yeah, I'm I think I'm I think she said
like I'm I'm open to it." And I'm like,
"Okay, no clothes are coming off."
[laughter]
>> I don't even think you said that. They
were just gone.
>> Boom. got out of bed, locked the door,
clothes came off, and and it was, you
know, it was wonderful.
>> Amazing. Amazing. I feel that I've been
on this long journey with you guys.
>> It has. It's been a It's been a It's
been a journey. [music]
>> Um, all right. Well, I'm so happy to see
you. We'll keep in touch. Thank you so
much.
>> All right. Take care. Bye. Bye. Bye,
Lisa.
>> [music]
>> Today's episode was produced by Nina
Feldman [music] with help from Anna
Foley. It was edited by Ben Calhoun,
Jodie Becker, [music] and Lindseay
Garrison with help from Patricia Willins
and Lexi Dio.
contains music by Marian Lozano, Dan
Powell, [music] Pat McCusker, Diane
Wong, and Leah Shaw Dearron, and was
engineered by Chris Wood and Rowan
[music] Nisto.
[music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you [music] on Monday.